[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Confusion
is where bugs come from.
When we think a program does one thing,
and
it actually does something else,
that's what confusion is.
That's what creates bugs, right?
So we want to eliminate as
much confusion as possible,
we want to be as clear as possible.
We want our programs to be something
that you can easily reason about.
Another of the design areas in JavaScript
was the double equal operator,
which is supposed to be
the equality operator.
Unfortunately, it does type coercion
before it does its comparison.
And so it can get false positives,
and you can also lose transitivity.
Transitivity is one of the mathematical
properties of a language which is supposed
to make it easier to reason about, but
it actually makes this language harder
to reason about because it's not there.
Fortunately, we have
a triple equal operator,
which always does the right thing except
for nan and we'll talk about that later.
But for all of these it'll produce false,
which is the correct answer.
So my advice is always use triple equal,
never use double equal.
And if you do that, then there's a whole
lot of confusion which disappears and
your programs become more reliable.
Now what about the case
where double equal actually,
accidentally sort of does the right thing?
Should you use it then?
And my advice is no, because you wanna
make it clear to the reader that
you know what you're doing and
you're doing the right thing.
And so if they see a double equal in your
program, they're gonna have to stop and
ask, okay, is this a common error, or does
this guy actually know what he´s doing?
It's harder to make the second argument
if you're using this operator,
so don't do it.
So if there's a feature of the language
that is sometimes problematic aand
if it can be replaced by another
feature that is more reliable,
then always use the more reliable feature.
That will tend to help us
keep the error rate down.
This is a new feature in JavaScript,
it was added in the fifth edition,
you see this in a lot of other languages.
I think this was a mistake,
for two reasons.
One is that indentation is a really
important component of style,
because we have a lot of nested functions,
nested objects.
Nesting is very important to revealing
the structure of the program and
helping us to interpret what is going on.
And this breaks indentation,
cuz everything has to go
back out to the margin.
So it does make programs harder to read,
harder to understand.
And that's a bad thing.
But even worse,
there is a syntactic danger that this
statement is correct, and
this one is a syntax error.
Can anybody spot the syntax error?
>> Speaker 2: Space on the right slash.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, exactly.
There's a space right here.
It's obvious once it's pointed out, right?
But yeah, that causes syntax error.
So I don't want to use this, because I
want my programs to be obviously correct.
And if I'm using forms that you cannot
distinguish from common errors,
then my programs are harder to understand,
and I don't want that.
So avoid forms that are difficult
to distinguish from common errors.
This is something that was wrong in b,
was right in Java but
skipped a generation,
now it's wrong in JavaScript.
We have here if a equals b,
which looks like it means this,
but it actually means that.
So when someone comes and
reads the program and sees that in it,
you have to ask, okay,
what's going on here?
The only thing they know for sure is
that the programmer was incompetent.
That they don't really know
what this was supposed to do.
So my advice is figure out which of these
you intended and write that instead.
And don't write the form
which is ambiguous.
Because anytime you have something that
looks like one thing that does something
else, that's where errors come from.
Not every time, but often enough that
it's a pattern you want to avoid.
So make your programs
look like what they do.
>> Douglas Crockford: Scope is one of the
best inventions in programming languages.
It came into the world in ALGOL 60,
which was, by far,
the best design by committee in
the history of programming languages.
ALGOL 60 was an amazing leap forward.
And one of the leaps was block scope,
where you could
create variables in a block, and they
would not be visible outside of the block.
And you could nest blocks,
and the inner most block
would have access to the variables of
the outer block, and that was brilliant.
And it's a feature of almost all
programming languages except JavaScript.
JavaScript surprisingly does not have
block scope, it has function scope, which
means anything declared in a function
is not visible outside of the function.
Now it turns out, that's enough.
You can write good programms in
a language that has function scope.
And so it's completely adequate.
The problem is that JavaScript has syntax,
which is identical to
block scope languages.
And so, when people come to
JavaScript from Java or C or C++ or
C# or virtually all other languages,
they get confused,
because it looks like the same style,
but it doesn't work.
So the reason for
this the way the VAR statement works.
The VAR statement gets split into
two parts, the definition part and
the initialization part.
If you don't have an initialization part,
it synthesizes one using undefined.
And it moves the declaration
part to the top of the function,
what they call hoisting.
So you might think that you're declaring
a variable inside of a block, but
it actually gets moved to
the top of the function.
And this can cause errors.
It doesn't always cause errors,
but it does cause errors.
So you shouldn't rely on that.
So in a block scoped language,
the best advice is declare
the variable in the innermost
block where it makes sense to,
probably at the site of first use.
That's good advice in
a block scoped language,
it's bad advice in
a function scoped language.
In a function scoped language, you want to
declare all of your variables at the top
of the functions, because that's where
they're actually being declared.
So you wanna make it easier for
someone to understand what the program
is doing by having it match
what's actually being done.
So in JavaScript, declare all of your
variables at the top of the function.
There's an even weirder thing that happens
to function statements, and so for
them, I recommend declare all of
your functions before you call them.
I find this is the most difficult
style thing for programmers to accept.
I've seen some of the best programmers
in the world get hung up on this.
So the induction variable is not
scoped to the loop in JavaScript,
it's scoped to the function.
So you should move that var i
to the top of the function.
And I see people get
really upset about this.
And that's wrong, no, it's actually right.
Because there are a lot of
errors that can occur if
you're not aware of that hoisting.
And so you really should,
you can avoid all of that if
you just move them to the top.
And you'll say, but
this is how you write it in Java!
And I say,
write in the language you're writing in.
JavaScript isn't Java.
And so there are things that are smart to
do in JavaScript that are not smart to do,
or smart to do in Java that
are not smart to do in JavaScript.
So you need to be working in
the language you're working in.
Every language is different.
And some of our style conventions can
easily translate from
one language to another.
But it's guaranteed not all of them will.
And so you really have to
re-address your style for
each language that you're working with.
In the next edition of JavaScript,
there will probably be a let statement.
And the let statement will be
just like the VAR statement,
except it will not hoist,
which means it will respect block scope.
>> Douglas Crockford: Now at that time on
that happy day, my advice will change.
And I will say,
always use the let statement and
never use the VAR statement,
unless you have to run on IE6.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: Or IE7, or
IE8, or IE9, or IE10.
And we don't know what's in IE11 yet, but
pretty sure if you only have to run on
IE12 and above,
then you'll want to use let statement.
Otherwise, you're gonna have to
keep using the VAR statement.